# Exploring Data Privacy and Transparency in Mobile Apps
In this document, I explore ever-evolving landscape of the Internet, specifically the shift from web browser to mobile apps, and how that correlates to greater issues in data privacy. 

While web browsers have allowed users to inspect and collect data, the same level of transparency is lacking in the mobile app ecosystem. The first article describes some privacy concerns in the seemingly innocuous digital wallet app, Venmo, while the second article proposes an "inspectability API" that could offer users a way to monitor and share data securely from their apps.

## Article 1
In The New York Times' [This Is a Reminder That You’re Probably Oversharing on Venmo](https://www.nytimes.com/2023/08/09/technology/personaltech/venmo-privacy-oversharing.html), we are again reminded of the digital footprint we (including both those who are tech-savvy and those who are not) may not know we are leaving behind so blatantly. Venmo, a widely-used mobile wallet service, has unwittingly exposed users' sensitive information, including their contacts, to the public eye. 

Notably, in 2021, journalist Ryan Mac discovered President Biden’s Venmo account and personal contacts list, raising questions about the security and privacy implications of such exposure at the highest levels of government. While we shouldn't assume that a high government status is synonymous with a high knowledge of the way technologies operate-- remember the questions asked by Congress to TikTok CEO Shou Chew? If you don't, here's a [refresher](https://www.cnn.com/2023/03/25/tech/tiktok-user-reaction-hearing/index.html): “So if I have a TikTok app on my phone and my phone is on my home WiFi network,” US Rep. Richard Hudson asked, “does TikTok access that network?”-- it's safe to say that we should all be aware of the data about us on public display, regardless of our status.

As users of mobile apps in a robust data environment, it is imperative that we review privacy settings and app permissions to be aware of what we are agreeing to. On the other hand, should this responsibiliy be placed solely on the user? I believe that it is very much so a responsibility of the designers to be transparent with their users, instead of assuming the user knows what the default settings are (or worse IMO, that it's simply more convenient to not disclose potential safety concerns.) This Venmo article underscores the importance of transparency and UI when it comes to data, equally as important in the mobile landscape.

## Article 2
The second article I chose by Wired is about [the Internet's Data Black Box](https://www.wired.com/story/inspectability-api-app-transparency/), dissecting the challenges users confront when attempting to investigate how companies manage their data within mobile apps. The Internet's Data Black Box raises a valid question in how and where our data is being utilized in such a vast digital realm, especially when checking "agree" to 10+ page manifestos on privacy permisions has been reduced to the tap of a big button. 

This article proposes the concept of an "inspectability API", offering users a secure and user-friendly means to monitor and share app data. It would work by providing a standardized interface through which users can access and export data generated by the apps they use. This data could include information about how the app collects and processes user data, which companies it shares data with, and how it tracks user behavior. Ultimately, it would empower users with knowledge, which is power...

If I were to make an app, I would definitely include a similar framework. I believe it's imperative for users to have access and knowledge in how their data will be used, without having to do "extra work". I believe transparency is just as important on mobile apps as it is on the web... regardless of percieved convenience by companies.


